Okay.
Thomas:  almost. There
Thomas: are, you guys hearing this through the microphone? Now.  no.
yeah, check
Evan Martinez - Stax: check one check one.
Thomas: something seems to be all. Are you hearing below the microphone now?
Evan Martinez - Stax: I don't know. I I can't. We can't see what you're talking through.
Thomas: But does it sound like it's coming through the microphone or my laptop.
Thomas: You hear this?
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, okay.
Thomas: So we have a protocol now for pre-recording. Why don't we pull that up?
Thomas: Take a little look.
Thomas:  where is it?
Thomas: Organization
Thomas: recording checklist? Okay, if it's zoom. we're gonna check our microphones. Yeah, what am I do? A little check myself? Joey chooses the file name, and then the boys name our local tracks.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Huh.
Thomas: Joe, we chooses the vile name, and then we name our local tracks. It's one of the steps, one of the early steps after
Thomas: volume.
Thomas: Joe. You there?
Joseph Howlett: Yeah, I just put it. I put it in the chat.
Thomas: Why can't I fucking copy this
Thomas: that is so weird I like cannot copy
Thomas: something that's in the chat
Thomas: that's so fucking, annoying.
Thomas: 3 t.
Thomas: To oh.
Thomas: is it not 202, 3.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, it is. It's 2023 tone.
Thomas: Well, I know that. But I I was just pointing it out that that's I don't mind.
Thomas: All right.
Thomas: Okay, let's open up our zoom settings. I'll just put a link here.
Thomas: I've got the checklist open, Tom, already.
Thomas: and then
Thomas: you got to click it in in the top left of the zoom settings are closed and the top left. It says, Original Santa free musicians, Colin.
Thomas: Tap it, and then it'll turn to on
Thomas:  and then.
annoyingly, something is wrong with my audio cable. I got to change it up. That'll take literally 10 s.
Thomas: Tiny obey. Guy.
Evan Martinez - Stax: me
Joseph Howlett: still very quiet.
Evan Martinez - Stax: How about now? My better.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah. You're wait to it again.
Thomas: Check 1, 2. This is the sign of my voice.
Joseph Howlett: You sound good.
Thomas: I think
Joseph Howlett: I have to like.
Thomas: put you guys on the
Joseph Howlett: I have to like. I don't know. I don't know what I have to do I have to? I have to
Thomas: somebody. You're really echoing.
Joseph Howlett: It's Tom's thing.
Thomas: What's up.
Thomas: hey? Can you hear me? Now?
Evan Martinez - Stax: Check one. I'm testing recording? Hi! This is the sound of my voice. We're gonna be doing a debrief. Okay.
Joseph Howlett: I'm like, really hungry
Joseph Howlett: God, this echo is bad check. Yeah.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I think in the past. Tom used echo cancellation, and it got better.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah, I just muted him. And now I love my life.
Joseph Howlett: Hang on
like
Joseph Howlett: I have to do more testing. So I'm going to meet myself.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Give me. I'll be right back, guys while you're all setting up.
Thomas: Joe, how are you?
Thomas: This is me test.
Thomas: Okay, I'm ready to go.
Joseph Howlett: I'm having sound problems like. So now
Joseph Howlett: I'm still getting echo through your
Joseph Howlett: Mike, Tom.
Thomas: you're getting an echo.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah.
fuck
Joseph Howlett: you gotta do your like? Echo cancellation thing.
Thomas: Yeah, that that is already done. Unfortunately.
Joseph Howlett: socks.
Thomas: I don't know what's going on. Let me try quitting Reaper
Joseph Howlett: also like, don't I sound bad
Thomas: a little.
Joseph Howlett: I sound like
Thomas: you're a little too loud. I think you're
Joseph Howlett: maybe I'm too close.
Joseph Howlett: I just sounded like it sounded like I
Joseph Howlett: like low
Joseph Howlett: sample rate audio to me a little bit. Yeah, is the microphone facing backwards.
Joseph Howlett: Let me try turning it around. It's no, it's definitely I mean, it's definitely facing the same way. It always does. But
Thomas: yeah, okay, that's not the issue.
Joseph Howlett: Okay, this is one way.
Thomas: This is another way, because obviously the first one. This is the third way. Okay, now, first, okay.
Joseph Howlett: yeah. Like, I just need a better mic.
Thomas: You don't sound terrible. I've been for days listening to or for hour. Yeah, for a days listening to your your fucking shot, Mike. Oh, yeah, I mean, I think.
Thomas: yeah, I mean, even the mic I'm using, I think, is an ideal for
Thomas: spoken word, really.
Thomas: But you sound okay to me.
Joseph Howlett: Okay.
Thomas: they should like, look on. I bet you could get a mic for like 50 bucks on Facebook marketplace, but might not be a priority.
Joseph Howlett: If it's 50 bucks, then fuck you.
Thomas: I think you could like the one that I was using like the shotgun, like, I found someone who was willing to sell me one for 50 bucks. And it was like a USB version.
Thomas: wow, yeah. they're like, not that expensive.
Joseph Howlett: Okay, this is my audio.
Joseph Howlett: This is now my audio.
Thomas: You sound a little out to me. But the only thing that matters is what's recording on your end. So I'm not worried about it.
Thomas: And it's still that going.
Joseph Howlett: Tess. No.
Thomas: it's better. Okay.
Joseph Howlett: okay, one more thing.
Joseph Howlett: Yes. So this is maybe where we like it.
Joseph Howlett: That sounds good. Yeah. Okay.
great.
Joseph Howlett: Let's keep going on the checklist, I guess.
Thomas: okay, let me pull it up again.
Thomas: Where did they should go?
Thomas: Okay, my check volume done, Angle myipes and you got your pop fields are on. I think we're good there. we chose our file name. Original sound for musicians is on
Thomas: zoom recording is on. Now. We just got to turn on our local recordings and cloud.
Joseph Howlett: Okay,
Joseph Howlett: I'm recording.
Thomas: Why don't we wait for Evan?
Thomas: Okay? Or I'm I'm gonna wait for Evan. I know he's here. Never mind. Okay.
Thomas: time recording. I'm recording.
Joseph Howlett: All right. Joey's going to clap
Thomas: Tom clapping. It never works.
Joseph Howlett: It worked. I think it worked last time, too.
Thomas: so weird. so weird.
Joseph Howlett: Who
Joseph Howlett: my pitch is good.
Thomas: Yeah. yeah, that was like 4, 40,
Thomas: maybe 4, 41. But you know, it's worth 21
Thomas: for anyone.
Thomas: Great example of my executive functioning problems is that
Thomas: my USB mice, a mouse has been dead for 5 days and it every time I use my computer it's like fuck. I could probably do it right now. You know, I could just plug it in.
Thomas: It's a plug in. Yeah, I got a new video game system. Look at this.
Thomas: Well, that looks crazy. It's got a crank in it that some of the games use this crank
Joseph Howlett: for what
Thomas: it's just like.
Joseph Howlett: It's another thing they can do. It depends on the game. Yeah, it's another way to control shit. So I don't like, some of them are probably fishing games.
Thomas: So that's the only thing that controls the movement. What's it called
Thomas: play 8.
Thomas: Unfortunately. Yeah. I tried to tell you guys this a year ago. That's funny.
Joseph Howlett: At least it's not a app.
Thomas: No, but I don't want anything to be an app. Frankly.
Thomas: I think Evan doesn't know he's muted.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I did not know I was muted correct.
Thomas: It looked like you were like part of the conversation.
Joseph Howlett: I was really into it, and there were like pauses for Evan. Well, actually, I had a couple of good quips that got no response. I was like old crowd. Actually, I just realized, I said, it doesn't matter that your audio is too loud. But we want the zoom recorded to be okay. So you're all just. I just have to turn up the gain. And I think on my personal. And, Evan, you're really quiet, and then I'm going to go like here, maybe. How about that?
Thomas: That's I sound good in my headset. Is there any way to boost it up because we want the
Evan Martinez - Stax: bye, bye. if I go higher, I'm going to start redlining on reaper.
Okay?
Thomas:  all right. Well, I guess we'll
Thomas: do what we can.
Thomas:  Evan, can you clap?
Thomas: I did. I already did once. One thing that sucks in it, so it doesn't count. One thing that sucks is. I'm kind of
Joseph Howlett: always getting room tone, like New York sounds from one of you. Zoom usually like cuts it in and out. You know.
Thomas: I'm going to mute myself. It's probably me. Maybe you're maybe you're loud, Tom.
I can turn down. My room is just really loud, unfortunately.
Thomas: So I turned. Yeah. Oh, wait! That's the wrong thing. Now I turn down. How's that?
Thomas: How's that sound
Thomas: any better?
Thomas: No, but maybe let's just go. I think it's fine. Okay, I'm gonna
Thomas: Do I sound quieter or louder or louder? That's good. I'm louder now. I like that even a little louder would be great if you can
Evan Martinez - Stax: again. I, I turn that into power. Yeah, yeah.
Joseph Howlett: okay, you.
Joseph Howlett: All right, we're ready to go. Kind of yeah. Yeah. Had a huge lunch just now that I feel too full. It's I'm I'm so hungry. And I'm worried that I'm gonna get mad at you guys because of it. So I wish I could like vomit food into my mouth, or something like a baby bird. Yeah, could you, baby bird? Me? I would do that for you, Joe. Thanks.
Joseph Howlett: That's actually we'll get into it. But that's weirdly what I've been doing all week.
Thomas: The dollar, apparently like the Lama community.
Thomas: like the Dalai Lama got in trouble because they said he was a pedophile, because he told a kid to suck his tongue. But apparently that's like a saying, because in that
Thomas: I don't know what you call it.
Thomas: That tradition, like the elders will chew up food for the kids, and then when there's nothing left, they go eat my tongue because it's like, Oh, I'm even going to give you my tongue. Wow!
Thomas: So he's not a pedophile. He's actually just a giver. That's good. Oh, wait! I have some nuts I'm going to eat like 5 knots hang on. Oh, yeah, can you eat some dust?
Thomas: I've been eating nuts all day. so, Evan,
I added some more grants. I started going through the grants that we had, and. like some of my next, like, there was one that was like only for people in Indiana, but like, I think we just didn't notice. And then I'm like putting them in different categories, like a lot of money or a little money. I guess we
okay, yeah, cool.
Thomas: I mean, not
right.
Thomas: It'll pay off in the long run.
Thomas: Could you train your closer and I go on that
Thomas: like I don't. I can't even tell you reading nuts
Thomas: all right. Who wants to kick this off
Thomas: me? But I have to eat. Well, hurry up. Yeah, easy nuts. Evan. Come on, give a man a chance to eat nuts. Eat your goddamn nuts, Evan. You do anything tonight?
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I'm going to. So, Julia, you know. Do you remember, Julia? She's the Ny professor with Jane?
Evan Martinez - Stax: Oh, yeah. Our friends of Jane, I mean, she's moving to to Los Angeles because she she got a job at Ucla. So I you, yeah. Yeah. And so.
Evan Martinez - Stax: yeah, well, we're just playing me, Jane, Jose and her. We're all going to her apartment to play moves tonight and have dinner. What about you?
Thomas: I don't know. I was gonna say, see a movie. But I'm also like
Thomas: as excited about being home alone, stone playing video games. So
Thomas: that does sound fun. Yeah, you have video games. You can be crank. You're gonna be cranking that crank
Joseph Howlett: like. Where's Tom? It's always crank in it again I peaked there. That was good. That was a good test of my peaking.
Thomas: Oh, just lowered my gain a little bit. Oh, my God, I don't want to peek you guys, Peak, I'm good. I love Evan that you added one that's like a LGBT. Grant. It's like we're gonna try and sneak in with you. No, no, it said. If one of your, if one of the creators is is, and I'm like, that's a great I'm going to look up more. Actually, because I think we actually do qualify for me.
Thomas: Yeah. And it's the only thing we're ever gonna qualify for? I don't have to change anything for that
Thomas: like, no, I identify some man. Okay, I can kick this off all right. Go for it.
Joseph Howlett: so.
Joseph Howlett: Evan. it's now
Joseph Howlett: June 20, fourth. We left Sedona on June sixth, and you left, I think, on the ninth. Is that right you left on Friday.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Correct. So it's been for you
Joseph Howlett: like pretty much exactly 2 weeks since he left Sedona. So I'm wondering.
Thomas: First of all, I have. I guess I have 2 questions. My first question is.
Joseph Howlett: how are you feeling?
Joseph Howlett: Has has anything come up or changed with respect to your feelings about our experience in Sedona. Have you been having any more spiritual kind of experience than you did before? And then my second question is.
Joseph Howlett: what in general has been going on in your life in the last 2 weeks. like. like, what has anything happened with any of the personal life stuff we've been talking about?
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah,
Evan Martinez - Stax: So I had a great time in stone. I still, you know, I like I really look back at that time with you guys and just be in like
Evan Martinez - Stax: it makes me smile
Evan Martinez - Stax:  because I like. I'm as I said before, and I I was just so happy to share my hometown with you guys, and I think you guys both really liked it, which makes me
Thomas: it lay elated, you know, you know, loved it.
Thomas: Oh, God! I now I have a
Thomas: Whoa! I'm not hearing your echo. It just started.
Thomas: Why am I not here? That's weird. I think it gets
Joseph Howlett: test test test. Yes, through, Tom. Sorry time I muted you because it went away.
Joseph Howlett: But it's weird, because it like, just start it just like clicked on.
Evan Martinez - Stax: That's so weird.
Joseph Howlett: And also at the same time
Joseph Howlett: the fucking room tone went away. It's like every we're not getting a
Evan Martinez - Stax: we're not getting a bunch of yeah.
Thomas:  So Tom's muted. So we have to figure this out. Hold on! Is it crazy? Echo? Now, yeah, yeah.
Thomas: it's like, it's not an
Joseph Howlett: I'm ming you. It's not an echo through your speakers into it. It's not like feedback. It's like literally playing the really good audio into our ears
Thomas: a second after, I will just keep him muted. And then, when you want to ask a question, you can unmute that that's not going to work like cause. Then when I talk, it's going to be all fucked up. I'm going to try leaving the call and coming back
Thomas: more.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Why does it only have with Tom's audio? I don't know his. His like zoom is the worst zoom of all time.
Joseph Howlett: He's gonna hear this and be bad. But I I just I just like I just like at any opportunity I can to point out that he should have got a macbook pro, even if it's totally unrelated. Like, yeah. Echo, man, you should have got the pro. Yeah. Well that that that applies to me, too. So yeah, well, you got a better for, or you got a better error than him, because you don't have the same problem. Yeah.
Evan Martinez - Stax: what were your 2 questions again, Joe, just while we are waiting? Well, I I want to invert them. Actually, how about now? What's happening now.
Thomas: One. No echo. Good! No echo. What about now?
Thomas: No. Oh, that goes back.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Check. We all. We're good.
Thomas: We're good. Yeah.
Thomas: I turn on echo cancellation
Thomas: in the past that didn't work.
Evan Martinez - Stax: It'll come back. Yeah. Why? Why don't we start over? Oh, wait. It's check one. Okay, it's gone
Joseph Howlett: all right, Joe. Ask your shit again. All right, Evan. I have 2 questions to kick this off first is like.
Joseph Howlett: I think, first, I want to ask, like, what in general has happened in your life in the last 2 weeks since you've been back like, what is, what have things been like? Has anything changed? Yeah, just like. Tell me what's up
Evan Martinez - Stax: the last 2 weeks has been have been
Evan Martinez - Stax: pretty great like
Evan Martinez - Stax: a little up and down with the the house. I'm trying to get in, Bushwick.
Evan Martinez - Stax: The bank keeps saying dumb shit that pisses me off, but spiritually like I have my crystals around my apartment.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I really enjoy just kind of picking them up and like having them in the space, which is obviously something new. I've never had them before.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I started dating. Well, I'm supposed to go on a date with a guy tomorrow.
Evan Martinez - Stax: and I know I told you I told you guys before, like I was going to wait until, like the house, or the job, or both, were taken care of
Evan Martinez - Stax: before I jumped into the dating pool. But, like fuck it, you know, like, who cares? Why not?
Evan Martinez - Stax:  And
Evan Martinez - Stax: yeah, I mean, I I don't know really what else to say. But in the last 2 weeks from Sedona, like the trip was, the trip was had such an impact on me like I'm still kind of beaming from it, you know, like I like, I am having residual
Evan Martinez - Stax: like residual good times from it even today. Wow! I mean, how much of that stuff that's going on? The positive stuff.
Thomas: do you think is because of Sedona, or at least related.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean, I always love going back to home and like being, you know, like having a moment to so sort of unplug from the chaos of New York City
Evan Martinez - Stax: and
Evan Martinez - Stax: grounding myself in the town and the rocks and the hikes, and the friends right? So, like all of that stuff usually feels
Evan Martinez - Stax: sorry. All of that stuff is usually carried with me when I come back. So I think it's a very high chance. Definitely. Was it different this time than other times. Yeah, for sure. I mean, you know, obviously, all of the work that we did, and like the spiritual endeavors that we all participated in participated in together
Evan Martinez - Stax: was a lot different. Taking you guys
Evan Martinez - Stax: to Sedona. Just period was also something new, and that was really exciting for me, because I very rarely get to take some. I very rarely get to take friends to Sedona.
Evan Martinez - Stax: so there was a lot new about this, for sure. So you've been working the crystals in. You've been touching them, and stuff! Where are they in your apartment?
Evan Martinez - Stax: So the 2 big ones are on the my coffee table. They're in the top right corner. If you're sitting on the couch looking at the television.
Evan Martinez - Stax: is that like, what is that like within reach? If you're sitting on the couch.
Joseph Howlett: It's not. No, it's not. No, okay, yeah. I think you should move them within reach. Yeah, no, you you should put them, I think maybe on the like autumn, and it's not an ottoman.
Joseph Howlett: You know. What I mean. The is that the coffee table, the thing that's like right in front of you. You you're sitting. Yeah. Oh, okay, yeah. So put it on the corner. That's closest to where you are, so you can reach it when you're watching TV or whatever. Okay, yeah, it sounds good.
Evan Martinez - Stax: yeah. I think the other thing that is different is how I look at Sedona, too, after this trip, you know, like, after exploring this spiritual side of the town, it's it's a
Evan Martinez - Stax: like it feels like I accept Sedona for all that it has to offer now.
Evan Martinez - Stax: whereas before I was kind of picking and choosing the components of the town that I loved. But now it's like, you know, it's like a relationship. It's like I love you for exactly who you are, with all of your crazy and exciting red rocks that are beautiful and shutting in. And you know as well as like your spiritual components and all of the people that you come, all of the people you have coming through your town like, I really I feel like I I love the town now
Evan Martinez - Stax: in its entirety rather than
Evan Martinez - Stax: a
Evan Martinez - Stax: rather than it being conditional love, you know. And that's really it feels really good
Thomas: joy. Can I go or do you want to?
Joseph Howlett: You can go?
Thomas:  I mean, that's interesting. You talk about like loving every part of the town and accepting it. For who it is that's Often! How people talk about learning to love themselves!
Thomas: Is there any? Has anything shifted in your relationship with yourself, due to the like
Thomas: changing feelings about your hometown and about your own potential spirituality.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I mean, I
let me see.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean I I S. Sedona is so much a part of me, so I'm sure that there is some crossover like the spiritual side of me. That is new is is everything that we talked about and everything that you know we talked about working on, which is
Evan Martinez - Stax: having the crystals being more intentional. When I think about Sedona and my place within the universe connected to it.
Evan Martinez - Stax: you know. Just like you, Kuala said. Right? Like paying attention to the nuances of spirituality is definitely something new and exciting for me, because it feels
Evan Martinez - Stax: it feels more appropriate for me like it feels like it's
Evan Martinez - Stax: a
Evan Martinez - Stax: it's. It's like better suited for me, and
Evan Martinez - Stax: in terms of like loving myself more or more completely, you know, like I feel towards Sedona.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean I I don't know I I don't think there's been a huge shift, I mean, I think there's a small shift in that for sure, like any time you feel like I. I just think, yeah, any time like.
Evan Martinez - Stax: So any opportunity I can to feel closer to Sedona and like, if I love Sedona more, then sure there are parts of me spiritually wise that I'm I'm sure I've adopted and and and
Evan Martinez - Stax: like, approve of and and accept right more fully than I did, and that feels good.
Thomas: Well, I mean, that's a bigger change than I think you could expect. You know, it's pretty huge.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean it. It feels very small to me to be honest like it feels like it like I don't feel like a like a
Thomas: I mean it. It feels well, any small change in your relationship to yourself is, it is a big deal, even if it's a tiny thing, right?
Thomas: Because you have that at least. Yeah, sure. Yeah.
Evan Martinez - Stax: yeah, sure. I mean, let me ask you guys now, it's been what 2 weeks, 3 weeks since you left. What are you guys doing? I'm not done with you.
Joseph Howlett: so you mentioned
Joseph Howlett: you mentioned the house stuff. Can you go into more detail about that like? when we were in Sedona? You see, you seemed like very pessimistic, like, very unlikely that it was gonna work out. Do you still feel that way based on what's happened the last few weeks?
Evan Martinez - Stax:  I think it is going to work out.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I think I think it's going to come through.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Wow! But I hate feeling that way because I have felt that way so many times before. With this house and with the house I bought with a
Evan Martinez - Stax: like, even though the one with tamour came through eventually. There were so many times. Huh?
Thomas: Ex-boyfriend.
Thomas: yeah, yeah. I mean, there was so many Tamar is. So if we're going to use someone's name, we should say it.
Evan Martinez - Stax: There were so many times like with that house where we were like, okay, this is it. We got the closing date set. We're going. And then some big problem happens and you know it. Then we have the feeling like it's all falling apart. And it's anything with this right? Like, I feel good. I think it's going to happen, but I also. I've been bitten by the snake of Bank of America before, and so, you know, I know better. I know better than to like, believe 100%. So you're being, you're being careful. But but
Joseph Howlett: like, okay, let's let's recognize that for what it is. The last 2 weeks have come. Wh. What has happened in the last 2 weeks in your life since you went back to New York have been has been a complete 180. With respect to the house, you you are getting only bad news and feeling only pessimistic. And yes, it's complicated. And yes, you don't want to get your hopes up. But the last 2 weeks have
Evan Martinez - Stax: boated really. Well, well, there are concrete reasons for all of this, though it's not like it like these. The the reason for my 180 is not just simply my feelings, like there's no I know I'm saying like actual things have happened. You've gotten really good news in the last 2 weeks. Right? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, so I just, I just want to clock. But it's bitter. It's also bittersweet, like, I don't feel
Evan Martinez - Stax: like, even if I get this. And I, I don't know if we're going to use this part in the podcast but, like you, you know, even if the House comes through like, it's a very bittersweet.
Evan Martinez - Stax: like accomplishment for me, because, you know, the bank found out I lost my job, and so they were going to pull the plug. I asked if I could add my dad to it.
Evan Martinez - Stax: He said yes, initially, but then realized like he just didn't want to fuck around with the bank. It was a hassle blah blah blah, and I was like cool, no problem all good. And then I found out that I was going to lose my deposits. So I I went back to my dad and I was like, Hey, man, this is the situation. I know you said no, I just wanted to ask you one more time, otherwise there goes $24,000 if you still say no like. I've
Evan Martinez - Stax: fully accept that. All good right. And he said, Yes.
Evan Martinez - Stax: but so now if I get the house, it's like. Well, I got the house because I asked my dad to like be on the loan with me, so you know, against his will, like he already expressed. He didn't want to, so like. It's very bittersweet. And even though it's not even though he's not giving me any money for the down payment or mortgage like. It's just an like an insurance policy.
Joseph Howlett: It it's still like, I feel like I have forced my parents into something that they have voiced. You know their opinions in the opposite, like they they don't want to do it. That was done. Yeah, but they just don't want to do it. So it'll yeah, yeah, it wasn't just a gift they were gonna give you. You had to. You were talking about the difficulty you had with this. You had to go to them and like ask them to go out on a limb for you in this way, and that's been really difficult for you.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I had to. I had to ask them. Yeah, I had to. I had to ask them to help me protect my deposit of $24,000. Yeah, and that's not easy for you.
Evan Martinez - Stax: It wasn't easy for me to like
Evan Martinez - Stax: I was. I was okay asking them the first time before I realized about the deposit. Right?
Evan Martinez - Stax: you know that it was fine, right they they weren't giving me any money for it like this. This was all coming from me. It was just because it was for the and it was for insurance for the bank. The second time I asked them, though, after they already said no, that that felt dirty, you know, like you, you want to
Evan Martinez - Stax: like. I I want to get to a place where my parents
Evan Martinez - Stax: can rely on me for whatever they need, as they get older, and granted, they will likely never be a day when they need me for money.
Evan Martinez - Stax: But like it's like a full package image that I'm trying to present right? Which is, I have my shit together enough. Where, like
Evan Martinez - Stax: you guys are in your seventys now, eightys around the corner, like, I want you to know that I am somebody to rely on in times of need. Now for you. As your life starts to change, so
Evan Martinez - Stax: it hurt. Yeah, it sucked definitely. It definitely sorry it definitely sucked to go back and ask them for help again after they already said, No, for sure. And so
Joseph Howlett: well, no, you can finish. No, that was it. What about What about the job? Hunt?
Evan Martinez - Stax: J. Job hunt is going well, I mean, I'm putting in a a fuck load of applications every every day and every week. You know I signed up with this company called Pathrise.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Hmm.
Evan Martinez - Stax: and I pay them money, and they in in exchange they give me.
Evan Martinez - Stax: They're I'm a part of like this big network that they have. They have like industry mentors. They help me with resumes and Linkedin, and and then they have, like quotas each week in terms of like. I have to submit X number of applications every single week. I have to do X number of cold emails every single week as follow up. So it it is. It's the structure I need
Evan Martinez - Stax: right now, as I apply for jobs, because I was getting really, really burned down.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, yeah.
Joseph Howlett: And yeah. And you were feeling really burnt out when we were in Sedona, like you were saying, I I don't know. I really am not looking forward to going fully deep back into the job on putting those applications in and stuff.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, yeah, no, I wasn't, and I still don't. But like now that I have pathrise as sort of
Evan Martinez - Stax:  help. Now that I have like the help from this other company.
Evan Martinez - Stax: So it, yeah. But
Joseph Howlett: no. Now that you have the help from the other company.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, like. Now, now that I have help right now that pathways is helping me, and I don't feel like I'm alone. it! It always feels a lot better. So it sounds like in the job department. You've spent the last 2 weeks really planting a lot of seeds right? Like putting putting a lot of things out there and really making some progress and feeling productive about it.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah, yeah, definitely, definitely. And has there been any change in direction in that job hunt like, are you looking at any types of different jobs than you would have before? Or are you going in any new direction in terms of kind of companies you're applying for
Joseph Howlett:  like, do you find yourself applying to new types of companies that you weren't really considering before?
I
Evan Martinez - Stax: I want, I want to say no, but I am
Evan Martinez - Stax: putting time into companies and industries.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I'm putting more time into companies, industry, and industries that I previously was. that I previously like wasn't doing very much any new industry in particular.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Not and again, not new industries. But I'm just putting more time. I'm trying to
Evan Martinez - Stax: even out the eggs I have in my baskets rather than going full force into only green tech or sustainability
Evan Martinez - Stax: or even just startups. I'm I'm rather I'm instead, I'm like trying to just even out, you know where I put applications in. So that I improve my chances. Because, yeah, yeah, what industries in particular?
Evan Martinez - Stax: I'm doing a lot of green tech. Still, environmental companies I'm doing media companies. Is that new?
Evan Martinez - Stax: No, I've done media in the past. But you're doing more of it now. I'm doing some more of it now, like as it comes available. I actually talked to Lex and Darius yesterday last night about.
Evan Martinez - Stax: you know, if there's a job opening at paramount that I think I'm right, for would they give me a referral? And they are both. We're like, yeah, absolutely
Evan Martinez - Stax: interesting. Would you have considered paramount like 6 months ago.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean, I know you'd consider anything. But do you think that would have popped on your radar 6 months ago, could you, or was that not the type of thing I mean? It wasn't on my radar. No, no, it it it wasn't on my radar just because I wasn't. I wasn't like I I don't know only recently that I realized that, like paramount the universals, the you know, all these have like
Evan Martinez - Stax: the jobs that I'm looking for like they have program, manager positions, project manager positions. So yeah, okay, before, before, before, it was not really on my radar as much. Okay. So this might have felt like kind of a fact. Gathering expedition so far. Kind of a slog, maybe. But it's I think it's about to bear fruit. So this morning I listen back this morning I listen back to the astrologer session.
Joseph Howlett:  And that's because I remembered that really, in particular, the last 2 weeks
Joseph Howlett: were the beginning of a new phase for you, and that came up like specific dates in June, came up again and again in that meeting in that session.
Joseph Howlett: But you know, in terms of specifics, I wanted to go back and like really understand, because there was just so much info in that session. And I also want to say, like, that's the thing that really resonated. Maybe most with you of all the things we tried. Right? Yeah, yeah, I love the astrology session. Yeah. So just to maybe to refresh your memory, because we've all kind of you know, it's been a bit. And it was so much information. please do.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah. So he said.
Joseph Howlett: he said, in particular, that
Joseph Howlett: you know the the previous period has been difficult for you, and the the pager, turning, has a lot to do with
Joseph Howlett: leaving old things behind.
Joseph Howlett: Starting a new completion, introspection, and letting go of the past, he said, you climb a mountain and reach this plateau. And now you're kind of like looking back at what you've accomplished in the last 12 years or so, and then you're moving through a gate into this like new chapter of your life, and dropping baggage behind.
Joseph Howlett: So think about like turning a new leave.
Joseph Howlett: He also said, that it's a will be a period of spiritual growth, even if you don't try the next year, he said, that even if you don't try like this, the the ground is right for spiritual growth. In the next year, even if you don't try, you will grow spiritually, but if you do make a little bit of effort. You'll really, really grow spiritually. So I think that little bit of effort you're putting in is huge.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah, he talked about some things that are difficult for you like asking for help is one of them which I think is interesting. We were just talking about how
Joseph Howlett: this period has been kind of bittersweet for you because of that particular difficulty of going to your parents at that moment and asking them to go out on that limb for you and do something that was maybe difficult
Joseph Howlett: for them, or that they weren't totally comfortable with. So I just wanted to highlight that
Joseph Howlett: But another thing is that, you know, he said, that this was going to be a good dating year for you, but to go slow. He's he seemed to feel that 2025 was gonna be the real
Joseph Howlett: turning point in turn, honestly on the marriage chart. That might be when you meet the person you eventually merit, Mary, although he said, go slow with marriage as well. you'll remember, and I also want to highlight that.
Joseph Howlett: I also want to highlight that, he said in terms of jobs.
Joseph Howlett: This is a really important period for you. And then, in particular, these 3 weeks of June are when you're going to be planting a lot of siege that come to fruition over the following 6 months, the period beginning in June and ending in January of February of next year. He thinks that this is the time that you're really going to plant seeds that come, that that bare fruit. And he said that it might involve looking into new kinds of areas. Job-wise
Joseph Howlett: in particular, he said. And you know this didn't resonate with you at the time, and it really felt like it was one of those moments, you know those moments in all of these things where you're like? Maybe astrology's fake because it just feels so false. He was like, have you ever thought about communications like, kind of the media television radio like is that something you might consider? And we were all kind of like, I don't. I don't see it
Joseph Howlett: so I mean I just
Joseph Howlett: you know I I I cheated I mean, I did talk to Alexis this morning, and I heard that you mentioned the paramount, but like I also, I also didn't need to say it like I got you to say it, and I don't know that's crazy I've never heard. And then you you followed it up. You didn't just say paramount. Right? What list the companies? You just set a gun?
Evan Martinez - Stax: well, I I you said paramount. You said A. But I do a couple of positions at Nbc. Universal. Yeah. But I got nose from both of them. Unfortunately, okay, I gotta say, these, yeah, this is all. Yeah, we have the list on the record. But anyway, you listed like 4 or 5 companies that are media companies and yeah, communications companies. And I gotta say the entire time I've known you.
Joseph Howlett: you've been looking for jobs and I've never heard any Bdr communications companies come up. So I just think that's really interesting.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I mean, I hate. I don't want to burst your bubble, but I have applied in the past way before the trip to Sedona. Yeah, you you said so. And you said that these these new areas aren't really new, but they are areas of of new energy for you. You are kind of putting energy. I mean, the words you said is that that wouldn't have been on your radar 6 months ago. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. I mean, I really, I really loved the astrology session like I said, you know, it really felt like it.
Evan Martinez - Stax: It
Evan Martinez - Stax: lifted some of the burden of all this shit that I have to figure out over the next, like, you know, 2 to 3 months. So I'm yeah to hear that that things are kind of falling in line as as the guy projected. They really are. And I I just want to say one more thing. This had to do with the geographic part. Remember, when he drew the lines on the map? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So he said in Nyc in particular, which I think this is interesting, because it's all like in these 2 weeks after you got home. he said. This is a period of career restructuring.
Joseph Howlett: It's a period of it's not about. It's not good. You you asked. Would it be fruitful? Would it be good, like good luck or bad, or what? He said. It's not good or bad. It's about looking at things, you already know, in the clear light of day.
Joseph Howlett: And I would say, that's really true. Everything you're saying about the last 2 weeks is things you knew in Sedona that you you need to put this new energy in. You need to look broader. You need help, and you're recognizing that.
Joseph Howlett: But you know it's all looking really stark like you're really looking at things in the clear light of day here. And I I think that's really
Joseph Howlett: that you're on track for this next 6 months. And he also said that
Joseph Howlett: the next 6 months will be fruitful for you career-wise, but 2025 to 2027 is gonna be a a period of really strong career and monetary success. So I think we should look. I'll I'll come back to you in 2,025 to 2,027, to make sure that you're going to be like
Joseph Howlett: I don't know, like Richard Branson, or something by then.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean, I'll take
Evan Martinez - Stax: a fraction of a fraction of a fraction of
Thomas: I think it a different, less rich guy that might be a little more comfortable. Yeah, yeah.
Joseph Howlett: yeah. Okay, so I I just like, I,
Evan Martinez - Stax: I'm really glad that you you listened back on that audio, and that where you're able to talk about this in detail. I really like. I sorry I cut you off. Joke. No, I'm done. I I think it's it's time to turn to you. I I just wanted to highlight all these things, because I think the month of June is very important, and I don't want to lose track of that.
Evan Martinez - Stax: The month of yeah, yeah, the month of June. And in particular, like the 2 weeks after. Sedona. Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. Yeah, yeah, I I I I I for sure feel better about finding a job now than I did before we went to Sedona. There's no question.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I don't know if it's because I was.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean, I'm sure it's because of I'm you know, all of the cool things we did in Sedona for the podcast, the spiritual awakening, the astrologer coupled with the sort of
Evan Martinez - Stax: the, the more structure and guidance that I've been getting over the past few days and weeks from pathrise that's really helped. So I I I for like there's no question I feel better about this. I I was getting pretty down about finding a job, and I still have moments right like it's not all the up and up all the time. I still have moments where it's like
Evan Martinez - Stax: I put in a lot of work on a resume
Evan Martinez - Stax: and hit, submit. And then, like 4 days later, they tell me to go fuck myself because I'm like, I'm I literally everything in the job requirements is what I have done. but like the highs and the lows are a lot more evened out. So it's it's not, as like, you know, difficult a sort of path to climb.
Joseph Howlett: Have you thought back to the breathwork or the Raiki toe reading whatever recession at all.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Have you thought back to the breathwork? We'll get to be on top out there?
Joseph Howlett: Well, I'm asking, because the breathwork wasn't particularly moving for you. You were into it, you you enjoyed it, but it wasn't particularly spiritually moving. What was the card you drew again before the breathwork.
Oh, shit!
Thomas: I have no idea. I don't remember.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I don't remember
Evan Martinez - Stax:  The the Raiki I kind of thought, was just really more of a massage.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  I
Evan Martinez - Stax: He like read my toes. But I just I I like
Evan Martinez - Stax: I I like to be honest. I really kind of checked out of that whole experience, like mentally, just because the guy was talking so much that it it turned me off a bit from the actual act of receiving a massage and like a ricky session. So when you like talked about my toes and I think predicted my future. I like I I just nothing registered with me.
Evan Martinez - Stax: The the breathwork, you know. I I don't know if I so would would agree with you that I did not have like a moving spiritual moment. I think I even talked about at the time of the class after how you you know.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean, I I didn't. I didn't have as emotional as we of our. I didn't. I didn't. God damn! I'm studying! I didn't have as emotional a reaction as say, you and Tom, but I still had a really wonderful time, you know, and the imagery of like the little meat like coming down and chilling in my chest like was something I've never experienced. And and
Evan Martinez - Stax: I felt really good, you know.
Evan Martinez - Stax: but yeah, I guess I even I don't. Did you tell us about that? The little you coming down? And yeah, that was a whole, that was all. A part of the like the visualizations that Mrs. Hat like gave us all. And and I talked about it
Evan Martinez - Stax: after like, when we were all sitting down, I do you think I have talked about it on Mike like after it? Do you think that meant anything.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I mean.
Evan Martinez - Stax: well.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I think what it you know, I'm more interested to see sort of
Evan Martinez - Stax: how all of this plays out in the next, like 3, 6, 9, 12 months.
Evan Martinez - Stax: But what I what it could mean right is is like an an acceptance of more of like
Evan Martinez - Stax: all of the childhood faults and the things that you know we deal with as kids, you know, maybe resolving some traumas that could be a little bit further. Push the need a little bit more.
Evan Martinez - Stax: but it was, I mean more. It was just what I really enjoyed about. It was like just like the visualization of like a little mini, me hovering over my chest, and then like going inside, which is what she like, what she guided us to do. And I thought that was really cool.
Joseph Howlett: Okay, Tom, do you have anything else to ask, Evan, before we move on to us?
Thomas: hold on! Let me unmute. I was doing temporary. Me.
Thomas: There we go.
Thomas:  yeah, I guess. So. This trip was
Thomas: ostensibly about you. I don't know if the audience is cut on, but that was kind of a conceit right? We went to Sedona to do all this stuff, and it was like framed around your experience. But it was really about all of us, and about the whole world, and philosophy and spirituality, and
Thomas: you know that.
Thomas: But sticking with the the little hook that we hung this story on
Thomas: the original goal was to.
Thomas: And there's a bus going by. Sorry.
Thomas: Also I had to stop my recording and start again.
That was me clapping
Evan Martinez - Stax: the the I don't know, unless Joey and I pick the clap up in our mics right like, does it do anything?
Thomas: Well, it does in the zoom recording
Thomas: gotcha. Okay, it makes it a little easier. Yeah. Cause you know, we can sync everything to the zoom, and then it's all on one, Master Gotcha, and that makes it easier to line up. I don't know. It might be it could very well be a waste of time. I don't know it's certainly good if we're in the same room.
Thomas:  so
Thomas: you know, essentially, the trip was about you, and seeing if we could unlock some part of your spiritual life. And you said to me in the past, and I think.
Thomas: just before.
Thomas: yeah, you said during
Thomas: you said during our conversation before we went out here a little intervention for you that you don't really have a spiritual practice.
Thomas: and
Thomas: you don't really see how it would add anything to your life. You're not opposed to it. But you just. It's not something you're particularly interested in
Thomas: now. My fucking cuckoo clock is going off.
Thomas: It's really something
Thomas: the conspiracy of
annoyance.
What time is it? Okay?
Thomas: You know, we talked on our last day there about how you've kind of opened up a bit in that regard. And then there's also the whole thing where me and Joey were saying, we feel like there's this like kind of emotional depth
Thomas: that we feel like it's hard to reach with you sometimes.
Thomas: Have your feelings about any of that stuff changed like? Do you think
Thomas: that the mission that Joey and I set out on
Thomas: for you for this episode. Did it work?
Evan Martinez - Stax:  yeah, I mean, I. The short answer is, I don't know.
Evan Martinez - Stax: You know a lot of
Evan Martinez - Stax: a lot of
Evan Martinez - Stax: or not a lot. But part of what you guys
Evan Martinez - Stax: were
Evan Martinez - Stax: describing and hoping for are like.
Evan Martinez - Stax: only really seen in my interactions with you guys. And so
Evan Martinez - Stax: you know, you let me know in the next, like 3 months, 6 months, 12 months.
Evan Martinez - Stax: If you notice a difference, you know I
Evan Martinez - Stax: I think one of the
Evan Martinez - Stax: most exciting lessons I took from this trip is is
Evan Martinez - Stax: just getting an understanding of the definition of spirituality.
Evan Martinez - Stax: because I was excited to learn that I do have a spiritual life. I just didn't realize it.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  And then also, there is the component of, you know, leaning more into it and and trying to expand on it, and with intention.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  but yeah, to to answer your question like for the other stuff like I I I
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean?
Evan Martinez - Stax: I'm not sure. Yeah, I don't know. I'm not really clear on what your mission was in the trip. Besides, like
Evan Martinez - Stax:  using it as an opportunity to to what's up?
Thomas: Oh, yeah. Well, I think I could put it succinctly like
Thomas: the goal of the trip. The question that I wanted to answer was
Thomas: by going to Sedona and embracing all of the world of different kinds of spiritual practices there.
Thomas: Can we
Thomas: unlock something for you
Thomas: that is in the realm of spirituality. And if we can.
Thomas: will that
Thomas: help some of these other issues that you've been struggling with recently, or just? Maybe struggling is the wrong word but issues. You've had recently different kinds of difficulties.
Thomas:  is there any relationship between those things, and can we improve them all at once? So to me like the fact that
Thomas: you've already defined spirituality. And now it's something you're excited about. And at your house there's a bunch of crystals, and you pick them up and feel good and like that's that seems like a a pretty radical change. That was exactly the mission that we set out on here. I don't I? I want to ask about crystals in a second. But
Thomas:  I think that's pretty wild. The fact that that shit worked. I didn't really think it was going to work, but it seems like it did. So. All this other stuff about, like, you know, we'll we'll be sad the way that Joey and I are sad together with us. That's maybe a separate issue. Maybe it's an issue that me and Joe we have, and not an issue that you have. I don't know. I I'm not sure I'm less sure than I was when we started. But spiritual stuff is a different thing.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah. And to be clear like. I'm not picking up the crystals because I think they have actual power. I still don't know.
Evan Martinez - Stax: but I'm willing to try what you know like. I don't pick up the crystals on my coffee table.
Evan Martinez - Stax: And
Evan Martinez - Stax:  yeah, like I I I don't. I mean, I I still don't know if they do anything but again, like if the crystals don't. But there's a placebo effect that makes me feel good like that's something, and that's something that we've all talked about in the podcast as being just as legitimate. Right? So I'm I'm it's like a trial period, like, I mean, I'm, I'm checking it out. And I'm picking them up and
Evan Martinez - Stax: going about my life as normal without putting too much weight into any one of these individual activities. And in like.
Evan Martinez - Stax: And then in like 3, 6, 12 months, you know. reassess, and see see what's going on.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I I just thought that was an important point to clarify like I don't. I don't. But I don't know if these crystals are actually doing anything, but I'm still
Evan Martinez - Stax: picking them up because I'm I don't know, and I'm fine to say that. You know.
Thomas: I like the 2 aren't mutually exclusive. Obviously.
Thomas: definitely let's let's harp on the crystals for a second, because we didn't really talk about it at all
Thomas: in Sedona much.
Thomas: but we've been living with them for a while. So we bought all these crystals, Evan. I got you one. I picked one out. I didn't buy it for you
Thomas: that was supposed to help with your gastrointestinal problems. If you're going to use that one, I think you should hold it.
Thomas: you know, when you're in the bathroom, I think it should be in your hand while you're praying to hope that things are going to work out for you.
Thomas: Wait. Is that? one of the smaller ones? Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Thomas: Oh, get him! Go get him! Let's all get our crystal. I don't grab mine.
Evan Martinez - Stax: All
Thomas: okay. I grab my crystals. I've got 3 here that I bought in Sedona. One is a flat purple one. Here.
Thomas: One is sort of a more rectangular kind of clear. That sort of looks like courts, but I don't think it's chords.
Thomas: I don't know what any of these are, and here's like kind of a green one with brown specs. This looks like kind of a bathroom rock, but that's not what this was.
Thomas: I've been picking them up and holding them in my hand, and like one of the things that we did, you know. Remember, when we went to that mountain? With that guide. What was her name? Joey? We did this.
Thomas: you know. We went to that mountain with Kim. Yes, we moved to the mountain with.
Thomas: you know we went to that mountain with Kim, and we did that whole ceremony at the Vortex, and she had us like visualizing energy.
Thomas: and I kind of like, let myself go and let myself think about that, and feel it, and not
Thomas: really wonder about whether it's real or not, and kind of ignore that whole question, and just kind of think about and visualize.
Thomas: I don't even know what energy is in this context, like some kind of flowing. light sort of thing, and I peg up these crystals.
Thomas: and I've been like kind of imagining that they're emanating some kind of
Thomas: light, and I'm like picturing it like flowing through my fingers.
Thomas: I don't know if it's doing anything. It's kind of fun.
Thomas: Evan, when you
Thomas: you said you're not sure if these things are real. Do you think you're taking them more seriously now than you would have before? Sedona?
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I think just by being more open to
Evan Martinez - Stax: yeah to it means I'm taking it more seriously. But I don't know. Actually, are those 2 the same thing. I'm more open to it.
Thomas:  yeah. So probably I'm taking. I see it less as a joke. I can say that for sure. You know it's the the whole crystal thing seems silly, I mean, Joey said. Between the 3 of us. We have almost a hundred years of not believing in crystals. Yeah.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean, I think it's like, only right that I that I still say that I'm
Evan Martinez - Stax: like crystals, I think are are
Evan Martinez - Stax: an area of woo where I still feel
Evan Martinez - Stax: like most resistant.
Evan Martinez - Stax: like. It's it's like crystals to me. Still, like.
Evan Martinez - Stax: you know, it's still the. It's still like the furthest reaching kind of you know thing that we've done that I think we all did in Sedona, but I'm I'm much less closed off to it than I was. Yeah, yeah, like, the fact that I have them in my house is something
Thomas: for me by far the hardest one for me
Thomas: is the astrology for sure, which seems like the easiest ones for you guys like I was definitely blown away during the astrology session by
Thomas: the level of accuracy of the things that that Guy was saying, both about you and in terms of dates of things happening in in your life, and we learned later that you weren't being totally forthcoming about how accurate he was with the dates.
Thomas: me, yeah. During the session, like there was the thing like starting when you were aid and ending when you were 23 or something, and like
Evan Martinez - Stax: you did not. It's not that I wasn't being accurate with him. I just didn't want to bring in like.
Thomas: yeah, you weren't. You weren't being misleading. You just didn't acknowledge
Thomas: like how fucking crazy it was that he had gotten that right? Yeah. But still, I don't know why. There's just something with me where I'm like I like, how? By what mechanism would I? I just can't. I can't get my head around it. I don't know. I like that. And that's like, you know, the quintessential woo-woo
Thomas: thing is astrology right like, if that's not it, I don't know what is.
Yeah, go ahead, Joe.
Joseph Howlett: He had never. I mean I listened to that. I he had never met Avon in his life.
Joseph Howlett: and he said that in the first 5 min he said that he prefers to be a boss than an employee. He wants to.
Joseph Howlett: He wants he he wants to to work for himself.
Joseph Howlett: He is very strong and practical minded.
Joseph Howlett: And did anything bad happen to you around the age of 7 or 8 dramatic experiences. I mean, that's pretty weird, you know. And I
Thomas: I I I hate to do this. I I hate to do it. But in any time Tom says I hate to do something. He's he's he. He can't wait to. No, no, it's not. It's not, it's not, it's not it. I mean, maybe a little bit
Thomas: It wasn't totally.
Thomas: It wasn't totally popular. Ra, so right? Because I had
Thomas: several phone calls with this guy where I described the project that we were on, and Evans resistance to spirituality, or my perception of Evans, resistance of spirituality, and that stuff. So he knew a bit. It wasn't totally clean to say that doesn't detract from
Thomas: all of the things that Joey just brought up, like the only one that maybe could be related is like him, wanting to be a boss, not an employee like
Thomas: I can't remember whether I mentioned Evans. you know.
Thomas: Teetering, scared up.
Thomas: But what was that?
Thomas: Yeah. Company? Yeah.
Thomas: you said. Petering's time seatering, teetering like it. It it could teeter in one direction or a container and the other. You know it's dangerous.
Thomas: something's teeter, and it's great, for you know, if you're teetering, and then you fall into the good hole like that's awesome.
Thomas:  so I don't know like, but still it was still it was why, but it it it was a struggle for me. I mean one thing that I think, is interesting, that I noticed during this trip that, I think was more pronounced for me than ever before, was like looking at the way Joey engages with this stuff
Thomas: where, like my impression, was like.
Thomas: someone would be like, dragons are real, and joy be like, got it? Okay? Like dragons are real now and then, like he'd be like, All right, we gotta go do stuff, because now we know dragons are real. So like we have to like that changes everything, whereas, like, you know, the show's called, I want to believe. But I don't think any of us want to believe as bad as like. Joe is ready to believe he doesn't want to believe he's he's greased up.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah, Evan would, Evan said frequently or implied frequently that this is to my detriment, and of course, like all of us, all of us think we're doing this in the right way, and the other 2 are doing it the wrong way. But like, but like that, it's true that that is definitely the the. If we're on the on that spectrum, I'm definitely at the extreme one. Yeah, which is interesting.
Thomas: And I did have there. There have been times, and this isn't my overall feeling. But just tell you all the things that I have thought at different moments. I thought like, that's not the right way to do this like that's not a journalistic project where, if you're like going in
Thomas: like, not with an agenda, but like like a truth that you want to arrive at
Thomas: like makes it, you know, can kind of cloud a person's judgment. I I don't think that's how I actually feel, but that's like something that came up for me at moments. I don't know. I don't know what the right way to engage with this stuff is like, what is the project that we're doing? We just want to like, find out?
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I mean, I
Evan Martinez - Stax: I was going to say so. So I made a note in my phone.
Thomas: Well.
Thomas: you guys ever been competitive with your dad, is it about kindergarten?
Evan Martinez - Stax: So yeah, like on the
Evan Martinez - Stax: I. So I re-listed to.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I listened back on the final discussion. When we were. It was right after the breathwork, right? We were all sitting outside of my parents. Patio.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Listen back through that whole thing. And
Evan Martinez - Stax: so 1 one of the like one. All right, this is going to sound. It sounds it. It feels weird to say this. I want to preface this, but it feels weird to say this, but I'm going to say it because it was my feeling after listening to it some days later.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  it it
Evan Martinez - Stax: like
Evan Martinez - Stax: when
Evan Martinez - Stax: my takeaway was that it? It like sounded like
Evan Martinez - Stax: Tom Slash Joe.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  I I prefer Tom, Joe.
Evan Martinez - Stax: yeah, it just it sounds. It's it's like. And this is on this very specific topic. that we talked about. And it it like it sounded like, you guys almost needed me to see the world, or like, have the world view of suffering or wanted me.
Evan Martinez - Stax: and, like the other takeaway was that
Evan Martinez - Stax: I love you, Tom, but you you kind of sounded like a bully after we listening to that in that final conversation, like a little bit like you were really fishing for.
Evan Martinez - Stax: like you wanted an answer out of me that you maybe weren't getting. Or maybe you were. Or maybe you were just trying to make great content. But I brought this up now.
Evan Martinez - Stax: based off of what you said earlier, which is like I, you know. over the last 2 weeks since I've been back I have spent
Evan Martinez - Stax: a fair amount of time wondering, like how this trip would have gone if
Evan Martinez - Stax: we didn't have the preface that it was some kind of a competition of any kind. You know. I I like
Evan Martinez - Stax: I And it's not like even before the trip where we were joking about what this is. It's you guys trying to make me uncomfortable like the like, even these these jokey things like. And then and then the real, the the very real structure about this being like
Evan Martinez - Stax: a spiritual
Evan Martinez - Stax:  what's the thing called when you like? Get a drug addict in a room that you guys intervention. Thank you. Like, you know, even with the very real premise of this being a spiritual intervention for me, I still wonder, like what this could have been, or how could it have been different
Evan Martinez - Stax: if it was instead of that, like all 3 of us going in as equals? Now not to say that I would. I want to change anything, or that I would have, because I really enjoyed the premise. but it just like something that I think about, which is weird.
Thomas: Well, you know, I
Thomas: you know, with the help of a doctor, and easing off antidepressants, so kind of every
Thomas: thing makes me sad right now, like everything I hear, I'm like, Oh, God! That's sad!
Thomas: But a lot of what you said makes me sad. A lot of what you just kind of makes me sad
Thomas: for one like you. You brought this up during the trip like the idea of it being a competition and not wanting it to be a competition.
Thomas: It was never a competition for me. I never like. There were moments
Thomas: when we were discussing it and having a debate
Thomas: like where I was like trying to make a point. And I really wanted you to see my point. But that was in those moments
Thomas: in the context of a particular discussion. I didn't
Thomas: come into this.
Thomas: you know, wanting to win. I came into this with an a question and an idea
Thomas: like a thesis, I guess, and there was something that I wanted you to see.
Thomas: And you know, during that conversation I will say like I was going much harder than I would in other conversations, because, like I,
Thomas: I wanted good content. And I wanted in that moment with the Mics around for you to see the thing that I was saying, because if you got it a week later, we're not recording a discount.
Thomas: you know, so I think I like in terms of being a bully. I it bums me out that you felt that way. I I felt
Thomas: like you were getting really angry at me during it, and it it bummed me out at the time.
Thomas:  that could have been me projecting.
Evan Martinez - Stax: No, I remember you saying that. Yeah.
Evan Martinez - Stax: yeah, don't. I mean, don't feel bad like you were going for good content. And that's something. I think we all want
Evan Martinez - Stax:  and and like to be clear. You, weren't you? Huh?
Thomas: That's one god we all worship. Yeah.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  It was only at like particular moments, and it was probably just during the times like you said where you were pushing a lot harder than you normally would have right that it that I that I got that feeling.
Evan Martinez - Stax: But it wasn't like. It's not a strong like. I'm not angry, like I'm not angry. Right? It's it's all good like. Don't don't worry about it.
Thomas: I'll try.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, I could say something.
Joseph Howlett: Time. You guys on me?
Thomas: No, no, I I want to hear what you have.
Thomas: I might.
It's a it
Joseph Howlett: at some point. at some point, Evan, you'll listen to the call Tom and I had.
Joseph Howlett: and some of them were recorded. Some weren't. But
Joseph Howlett: I mean we talked about this, and
Joseph Howlett: I think you're totally right, Evan. that that is
Joseph Howlett: the tenor it took on.
Joseph Howlett: and I also wonder
Joseph Howlett: what it would be like otherwise. But I don't think, looking back, that it could have been otherwise.
Joseph Howlett: because because I
Joseph Howlett: the truth is that
Joseph Howlett: the trip happened because Tom and I think something about you
Joseph Howlett: like we have this image of you which is flawed, and then we have this image of what you could use, or what you could benefit from, which is also flawed.
Joseph Howlett: But the point is that you did disagree with those images like when we presented to you our kind of thesis
Joseph Howlett: from the beginning. It wasn't something that you really felt
Joseph Howlett: to be true. It wasn't something that rang very true to you, and that meant that there was something contentious or resistive or combative
Joseph Howlett: about the nature of this project I think that maybe it was impossible to avoid. I would love. I'm trying to think about the version of that trip that is about Evan.
Joseph Howlett: but
Joseph Howlett: isn't in competition with Devon. And I think it's impossible
Joseph Howlett: because of the type of person you are like, because of what I am
Evan Martinez - Stax: also yeah for sure. But also like it's, it's something like, we're, we're making a podcast. We're, we're creating a story. And so like the the tension
Evan Martinez - Stax: as little or as much as there was right. The tension that
Evan Martinez - Stax: the tenor of this like this structure provided was also necessary for good storytelling. In my opinion, right like it was like, it's because
Evan Martinez - Stax: there, if we.
Evan Martinez - Stax: if we, the version where we all go to Sedona and just have, like our own independent experiences and like nobody's pushing anybody to do anything like. That's not a story, I know, but that's not about Evan. So like, I'm wondering, is there? And is there a version of this episode. That's about Evan, but isn't contentious, and I think
Joseph Howlett: not just us. We made that impossible because of because of making jokes like, oh, this is an intervention, right? That was a misstep in that direction that made that impossible, and you also made it impossible, because when you presented these facets of your character to you, you fundamentally disagreed that they were there.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Can you? Can you say more on that?
Joseph Howlett: That? Spirituality is a thing which you are missing have particular difficulty engaging with
Thomas: more than us, and could benefit from. I mean, I'll say, like.
Thomas: when we went into that first conversation with you about this trip.
Thomas: My memory was that Joey and I have brought up the idea that you are resistant to spiritual stuff
Thomas: several times, and you've argued that that's not true. But then I felt like during that conversation you said, Yeah, it is kind of true, like I would expect of the 3 of us going into a project because I would be the most resistant. I never heard you say something like that.
Thomas: So I, you know.
Thomas: thinking about what you said. Yeah, I think I was a little competitive
Thomas: about this project. I mean, part of it was like, you know, we've talked about this before.
Thomas: This kind of thing. you know, separate from our work on the show.
Thomas: and like come to an impasse.
Thomas: You know. I remember that time we were like doing our little radio show thing, and we were lying on my rug, and we talked about it.
Thomas: And like, you know, it's
Thomas: it's hard for me for a number of reasons. One is, it's like. you know, there's
Thomas: something that's really important to me that I believe that I want to get across to you because I care about you
Thomas: the thing that that
fucking truck going by.
Thomas: the thing that that is is about the nature of our relationship, and this kind of long yearning that I felt.
Thomas: you know, with you, and I think with, you know, a lot of other people of like wanting this level of intimacy that I felt like I couldn't have, which I think is a me problem. I you problem
Thomas: so like that.
Thomas: That's rough, you know, like, when we.
Thomas: you know, did our breathwork ceremony at the end, like one of the things. I was really mad at you, and I don't know if I told you that
Thomas: before we end our breath at the end of breathwork at the beginning. Oh, no, I had no idea why, during the ceremony I forgave you, and felt better, and understood how I shouldn't be mad. What like do right before the ceremony you were like. Let's make this 10 min, because I think it's going to be bad and like, I want to
Thomas: like, get out of here, basically. And I was like, Come the fuck on like we have to engage with this. try and like it. We had had a similar conversation
Thomas: the day before where you were like, you know, when we get back to the house like, let's just do like 10 min. Everybody's tired, and I'm like no like
Thomas: one of the things that I arrived at during the thing during the ceremony was like.
Thomas: you know, if
Thomas: I was so mad. Because I'm like we're doing work here. We're not relaxing, and it's hard. It's hard work, and it takes a lot of work. And like, if you can't do it, if it's like guys.
Thomas: I'm in a terrible mood. I cannot do this, that's one thing. But if it's possible, like I feel like not feeling like it
Thomas: like that's what it felt to me. It felt like you were saying, I don't really feel like doing this, so I was just. I was just tired, probably, and and like when I'm acting foolish and saying dumb things like I have my friends call me out, which is what you did. Yeah, but also, like, I don't think it was appropriate for me to be mad at you. I think that had to do with a lot of my feelings about the project like one of the things that Anahata whispered to me. She whispered things to all of us during the ceremony was like.
Thomas: you don't have to take care of everyone and everything
Thomas: which, like
Thomas: I'm getting a little choked up thinking about that like I did feel this pressure. And I often like with this project, feel like.
Thomas: I want this to be good so badly. And I'm so worried that it won't be. And I'm so worried that if, like, I have this idea, if we don't
Thomas: fix this problem or do this thing, it's going to be bad and like, I have to convince everyone like, please listen to me. I want it to be good. We got to do it this one way, which is.
Thomas: you know, about a lot of different issues that I have about control, and
Thomas: you know confidence and trust in the people that I love. And
Thomas: you know, faith, that things will work out, and the projects that I work on will be okay.
Thomas: And also just like me.
Thomas: all of my relationships feeling so precarious all the time.
Thomas: you know, and I think that, like sometimes I said this after the ceremony, like manifest sometimes, is me being mad or controlling or
Thomas: despondent. and I think a lot of that shit cropped up.
Thomas: you know, during this trip, and also because the trip is about in some sense our relationship.
Thomas: You know that like that's like painful for me, and it's like this thing that I'm I'm trying to like. Wrestle like, please Ev, and love me is
Thomas: part of what's going on.
Thomas: you know, which
Thomas: I don't have to do, because
Thomas: I know that you love me. It's just in moments that's really hard for me to except and believe
Evan Martinez - Stax: it's a journey.
Thomas: Yeah.
Thomas: And yeah, you know, I I don't think it could have been
Thomas: less competitive for all the reasons, Joe said, because I came to it with a competitive spirit.
Thomas: I don't think you are competitive necessarily, but you like didn't agree with my thesis. you know. So there was this like inherent tension there.
Thomas: like if it wasn't the only other way I could see it. If it's if we went and we're like, Well, I haven't you like that it was like, I'm like, Oh, okay, cool. I don't know what else it could be.
Thomas: but I do.
Thomas: No, I mean it makes bricks good. I've been talking a lot, but like
Thomas: I think, all of that made the trip kind of hard and painful at moments.
Thomas: and
Thomas: like
Thomas: what's like to me, I felt strain on our relationships during it.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Oh, I mean.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I would clarify and say, only at moments like, Yeah, the majority of the trip by far, like, not a question
Evan Martinez - Stax: was
Evan Martinez - Stax: not strenuous at all like it was, I was just loving the time I was getting with you guys, you know, and like sharing the town that I grew up in with you. And so yeah, only for only but moments, in my opinion, at least.
Evan Martinez - Stax: where it was it strenuous, and that was like during the more like. you know, the more like, you know, like the breathwork at the end. Obviously.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  But yeah, like only for moments. For me. Anyways, you know.
Thomas: Yeah, I mean, I guess one thing I want to say is, I recognize that I made it a little slightly at moments.
Thomas: perhaps a little more unpleasant for you. and less fun than it could have been.
Thomas: and I wish it could have been another way. But there, I'm sorry there was no other way for it to go. This is how it's going to I'm glad, because I think we got the best tape we could of it. It's good tape. It's good to. Yeah.
Joseph Howlett: I mean that suffering conversation is the best moment in the history of podcast and I'll, I'll die on that hill. The the conversations? No, the one I haven't listened back to. Yeah, yeah. I I'm afraid to listen to it, because I I was upsetting for me during okay, in your Ep, which is good, like.
Thomas: I love that I have to wrestle with something here that is hard and challenging
Thomas: in the ways that a lot of the emotional growth have been dealing with lately is, should we talk about me and Joey?
Thomas: I
Thomas: I guess I could go first, because I've already started, you know, like, I mean, one interesting thing is like, I
Thomas: I don't know if you guys notice this.
Thomas: but I I think
Thomas: I have a lot of intense emotions.
Thomas: Yeah.
Thomas: the emotions I've been having lately have been less intense than others have
Thomas: had for a while, you know, like I went through like a really difficult break up
Thomas: about a year ago now, almost exactly, actually. And it took
Thomas: a really long time to get through it.
Thomas: I think, because it was also about of a lot of other things. And I've actually over the past couple of months like, I'm
Thomas: totally better. I was doing a lot better. Now, I think things are good, and I actually have this feeling now, like I spent most of a year being like I have to escape
Thomas: this period, like I need to get to a place where I'm not suffering this much every day.
Thomas: And now I did, and that was like the primary focus of my life. And now I'm like.
Thomas: well, now, what do I like? What am I working on? You know, like everything feels kind of aimless and like going into this trip. I was talking.
Thomas: I guess. Let's get.
Thomas: I like it. When podcasts get real, let's get real, should we get real guys what the fuck has this bid? I'm not. I don't know. If I'm ready for real, I think. you know, I had an idea for a podcast called, Let's go there.
Thomas: You know, I, before the trip, agreed with my psychiatrist that I needed to make a major change with all of the pills that I'm taking, and I put it off
Thomas: because I didn't want to be going through that during the trip, like it was right before the trip that, we decided, and he gave me a new prescription. And then, right after I tried it. And then, like, Now I'm like
Thomas: off all those medications, and I'm like going through withdrawals. My body's like there used to be a lot of serotonin here like there's not, and
Thomas: we are not pleased about it.
Thomas:  So it's weird. It's hard for me to think about like how that trip affected me. It was huge. I mean, it really changed my thinking about
Thomas: just like you have, and what spirituality is, and what it means to me, and what are the ways I can practice it.
Thomas:  I had, you know, a really intense with that.
Thomas: you know. Breath work ceremony like
Thomas: like psychedelic
Thomas: journey, you know, and that's what Anna Huta calls them. She calls them journeys, and like. That's how it felt for me.
Thomas: it's just been a crazy time, like a lot of shit like moving around and changing and like is in flux.
Thomas: You know, I haven't really been in a place where I can like sit and contemplate.
Thomas: you know, a slow, quiet change, because everything else is spinning around. But it was huge. I think it was. You know.
Thomas: You know you come to some turning points in your life where you like. Make a 1 80 or like a hard right?
Thomas: I think it was a turning point. I don't think it was a huge one
Thomas: waiting for a bus to go by.
Thomas: I gotta figure out a better recording situation.
Evan Martinez - Stax: maybe recording your your on your couch. I should. Yeah.
Thomas: just away from the windows, you know. Yeah, it's just the desk is the issue. But I
Thomas: and
Thomas: yeah, I don't think my life
Thomas: is like different before and after. But I think it's different in a little way, like I think I like turn it like turn just a little bit. It's like things could be like this.
Thomas: you know. You can be having
Thomas: spiritual experience in all kinds of different ways. To me, coming out of that trip.
Thomas: I thought spirituality
Thomas: was
Thomas: some kind of
Thomas: religious or quasi-religious thing that relates to the frame of mind that people who are religious have right, even if it's not about believing in God. It's about some faith-based system.
Thomas: In some kind of practice where.
Thomas: based on the conversations that we had and the conversations we had with.
Thomas: you know all the different guides, and I think
Thomas: Yukawa in particular.
Thomas: Now, I think spirituality is
Thomas: a way of
Thomas: thinking about the world that's about feelings of connection and
Thomas: oneness with other people in your environment and hearing this like
Thomas: I can feel myself 10 years ago rolling my eyes. you know, but
Thomas: like it's just like this intuitive
Thomas: feeling of lighting things be the way they are and feeling
Thomas: things. And you like.
Evan Martinez - Stax: go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah, like, we're a so like a single organism.
Thomas: Yeah, I mean, as you take you take mushrooms, you're going to think about that.
Thomas: you know.
Thomas: yeah. And like feeling part of your environment which is hard to feel in, you know, this
Thomas: beat up apartment
Thomas: in Brooklyn, you know, it's not a very, not a lot of nature.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, Joe, real quick before you go. One of the most impactful statements that
Evan Martinez - Stax: for me, I heard out of any of our guides was when you, Koala.
Evan Martinez - Stax: talked about walking outside.
Evan Martinez - Stax: touching the little stem of the plant just to remind him and feel grounded to the earth. And then he, like, walked back into his meeting, or whatever it was, and was like good to go, just like the illustration of how nuanced and small spirituality can be
Evan Martinez - Stax: was
Evan Martinez - Stax: so clear after he said, that I really I loved when he, when he said that like that was such a
Evan Martinez - Stax:  What was that? It was? It was such a beautiful
Evan Martinez - Stax: in simple statement.
Evan Martinez - Stax: with so much power behind. It is what I remember feeling.
Thomas: Yeah, like.
Thomas: I remember that that moment stuck out to me, too. It's just like spirituality is about feeling
Thomas: grounded and connected with everything around you, which is not
Thomas: the way that our society is constructed to make you feel like everything is about rugged individualism and working really hard to earn things as opposed to just like here we all are. Isn't it strange? Yeah. And it was a potted plant. It wasn't even planted in the ground. It was in a pot.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Joe, you want to go.
Joseph Howlett: Yeah.
Joseph Howlett: First. My crystal thing.
Thomas: This is my crystal. Yeah, Joe, how's what's been your story with the crystals?
Joseph Howlett: So it's one of the reasons I wanted to get us together, did I? Actually? I
Joseph Howlett: I
Joseph Howlett: So I have all sort of colitis. And that's what I asked. At the second crystal shop we went to where they wouldn't let us record.
Joseph Howlett: I went to the cashier, and I said, I have all sort of colitis, and she pulled out a big book, and she went to the index, and she proceeded to give me a list of crystals that would help me.
Joseph Howlett: and I I picked the one that was like most on the nose. And I picked a really pretty one that I love. It's like green and jagged. I described it when I bought it
Joseph Howlett: on Mike. and
Joseph Howlett: then I got. Then I went to Cape Cod for a week with my family, and I left it here. and I ate raw shellfish every day for a full week.
Joseph Howlett: Everything was fine, it was fantastic. I came home.
Joseph Howlett: and the first day at work I I saw the the crystal on my shelf. I'd put it near my bed, and I was like, maybe I'll just like care. It's small. Put in my pocket for the day, Lisa, at the first crystal shop. It said, some people like to do that.
Joseph Howlett:  So I carried it around for the day, you know. I went to work. I was tired. I came home and went out to get Tacos.
Joseph Howlett: I picked up 3 3 tacos. I brought them home.
Joseph Howlett: and then I took everything out of my pocket, and I think this is important. At that moment, when I came in the door, I took everything out of my pocket, including the crystal. I sat down, I watched TV. I ate the 3 to it goes. I went to bed.
Joseph Howlett: This was Monday. This was this Monday night.
Joseph Howlett: and I woke up at like 3 Am. With food poisoning.
Joseph Howlett: and I spent the entire next 24 h doing the things that you do when you have food poisoning. It was really, really awful. And I like, basically like, couldn't move. I couldn't even like open my phone to email work that I wouldn't be there like I just I, it was horrible. And
Joseph Howlett: for it for a full day. And then and then I noticed at some point during that day I saw the crystal on the floor. I was like, I guess. I took it in my pocket. It fell on the floor.
Joseph Howlett: so I don't know. and that that's not even the end of the story, like I didn't keep fucking with the crystal that week. The crystal kind of stayed on the floor.
Joseph Howlett: But then, like I thought food poisoning was over. But it didn't. It triggered a colitis flare up. So I basically the upshot that, like those the 5 pistachios I shoved in my mouth before this record, so I wouldn't be angry.
Joseph Howlett: That's the first thing I've eaten since Monday. That isn't like a liquid, or saltines, or apple sauce.
Joseph Howlett: and it's been a really bad week.
Joseph Howlett:  And I don't know what to make of the fact that I was fine in all of Cape Cod.
Joseph Howlett: eating all these shellfish, and and and then I you know the 3 Tacos, but it's like the 3 Tacos were on the day that I was carrying the crystal around so like what the fuck, but then I did take it out of my pocket before I ate the 3 Tacos, so I I I don't know. What to make of it. Maybe crystals are nothing, and and there's nothing to make of it. I don't. I don't know but it's it's the work I mean. It's the worst week in terms of my disease that I've had in about a year.
Hmm.
Thomas: hold on.
Thomas: Yeah. I mean about the crystals, like.
Thomas: if there's anyone left listening to our show at this point, who is a
Thomas: skeptical. we person
Thomas:  this will probably sound annoying. but, like, you know, we talk about the placebo effect
like
Thomas: are the crystals
Thomas: like, if you believe that they'll help you. Will they help you? There's even like a placebo effect, where, even if you know a Pelosi, something is a placebo it can still help like if you tell they've done these clinical trials right where you tell someone I'm going to give you a placebo. This is not a real drug.
Thomas: We're studying colitis. This is not going to help.
Thomas: but it's supposed to, but it won't.
Thomas: It still works.
Thomas: So maybe that's some kind of scientific thing. Yeah, sure. But I also think that there is like a way you can be in touch with your body. and which has to do with being calm
Thomas: and like present, and not like thinking really hard about things that might happen in the future, or it did happen in the past.
Thomas: And like, I think you know, when I pick up these crystals.
Thomas:  I think it makes me feel that way. You know, this one right here. This feels like probably the one that I need to this guys. It's like it's kind of green.
Thomas: Got some like brown in it. It's a weird shape. It's like, sort of a triangle.
Thomas:  this is.
Thomas: It is. This is Eukonite, according to the sign at the Crystal Store. And what it's supposed to help with is heart-based. Knowing this.
Thomas: it's the relationship stone it promotes psychic vision.
Thomas: It balances emotions, facilitates, rebirthing and past like healing, healing.
Thomas: And you know for what it's worth.
Thomas:  when we had our psychic reading
Thomas: actually told us that I need to work on opening my heart shock where this little rock is supposed to help with that
Thomas: I'd forgotten all of that shit
Thomas: when I picked up these crystals in like belt them, but they make me feel relaxed.
Thomas: That's got to help with shit, you know. If if you pick up that crystal, and it makes you feel calm, Joey, that probably helps with the colitis.
Joseph Howlett: Well, I I mean, I I think I'm gonna get rid of mine like I feel like it's mocking me like I really. How how more could I have engaged with it like I put it in my fucking pocket and carried around today thinking about okay, you know, this day might be challenging for my whatever. And
Joseph Howlett: then I got the, you know. Then I got really, really, really sick. And you know, looking at it now, it's making me kind of mad. Honestly.
Thomas: Wait. I thought it was fine when you were in cake cod eating fish, and then you took it out of your pocket, and then you got sick. No, I didn't have it in Cape Cod. I left it here.
Joseph Howlett: and I carried it. I carried it around. I got back. I carried it around for one day I got tacos. I brought them home and I got food poisoning.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I mean you had
Evan Martinez - Stax: your your colitis is like an at like a it. It is a medically diagnosed disease.
Evan Martinez - Stax: you know, and it's so often. I hear from homeopathic doctors or other people in the Google community that say, this stuff should be
Evan Martinez - Stax: like it should work with Western medicine when you're dealing with, you know, things like this. So
Evan Martinez - Stax: the idea that just holding a crystal in your pocket would cure your colitis is insane.
Evan Martinez - Stax: It's nuts
Thomas: unless they're magic.
Evan Martinez - Stax: And then the but what I else I wanted to say is like, Yeah, if crystals, maybe crystals aren't your thing anymore. And that's fine, right? We're not going to resonate with all of the different
Evan Martinez - Stax: practices and experiences and like options that the wool has to offer, and so like. If this is no longer something that tickles your fancy like. Fuck it, drop it. I just think of this one is bullshit.
Thomas: Yeah, it sounds like you said it is mocking you. It doesn't sound like you think that it doesn't have any power. You think that it's it's in this rock is intentionally
Joseph Howlett: being your life works. Yeah, I'm I'm throwing it out the window. But then it might poison somebody. I need to do something. Anyway, you need to dispose of it in the proper way.
Joseph Howlett: okay, so that's my first thing. And and I think the crystal discussion in it is good because it could go in the the next episode.
Joseph Howlett: Maybe. Yeah.
Joseph Howlett: the second thing is more.
Thomas: Yeah. So I was, especially if the crystal thing comes after the stone episodes like. So when we were in Sedona, we got all these. Yeah.
Joseph Howlett: yeah, it's perfect. Okay, the second thing is more about
Joseph Howlett: this. So
Joseph Howlett: you know, I had this big reaction to the breathwork.
Joseph Howlett: I tried to like, you know, and like, I told you guys, it didn't have really specific content. So it was hard to like figure out what it meant.
Joseph Howlett: So, you know, like I talked about it in therapy the next week, and I did. my sister read my Tarot in Cape Cod, and I I asked about it like what it meant.
Joseph Howlett:  and my shrink. I you know, I told my trick. I was like, Yeah, no, I just like don't understand why. And my trick was like I mean, it makes total sense. Why, you got this reaction like she was like, you know, a according according to her
Joseph Howlett: a bunch of stuff we've been working on in therapy totally relates, and it makes a lot of sense that I had this kind of big reaction.
Joseph Howlett: knowing when that happens. Yeah.
Joseph Howlett: you know. Then in Cape Cod, it kind of made me feel the terror reading. I'm still unpacking, but I think
Joseph Howlett: I think a lot of this, you know that. But the card I drew is new growth, and
Joseph Howlett: I've been thinking about that a lot.
Joseph Howlett:  I think that
Joseph Howlett: I think that the choices I'm making in my life.
Joseph Howlett: It feels to me it's always felt to me like there's like the personal stuff which is important. And then the work stuff, which is unimportant.
Joseph Howlett: but it feels like kind of like in or like the kind of the
Joseph Howlett: there's the real stuff I've always felt like. There's the real stuff and the superficial stuff.
Joseph Howlett:  but it in terms of those kind of superficial, logistical choices in my life. I think I've been making, or I am making ones that
Joseph Howlett: really stake out a path of my own in a way that's new for me, and maybe challenging to that part of me that is really
Joseph Howlett:  formed by my past and reactive to
Joseph Howlett: these changes.
Joseph Howlett: So I don't know. I I that's me trying to understand the
Joseph Howlett: my reaction to the breathwork.
Thomas: Yeah, you know.
Thomas: year and a half ago, 2 years ago, when did we start working on this?
Thomas: I think it was in 2021, right?
Evan Martinez - Stax: We yeah. We. We went hunting for my scooter in 2,021.
Yeah.
Thomas: And then we decided to.
Thomas: you know, year and a half ago, 2 years ago, we decided to
Evan Martinez - Stax: make this show about spirituality. Wait, Tom, if you're going to change subjects, can I ask Joey one question about what he said.
Thomas: Oh, yeah, for
Evan Martinez - Stax: Joe, I'm I'm wondering. How do you see spirituality
Evan Martinez - Stax: working with like therapy
Evan Martinez - Stax: and childhood trauma like, how do you?
Evan Martinez - Stax: How? How are those 2 practices merged inside of you like, what do you
Evan Martinez - Stax: is there? Is there any overlap? Is there like, I'm just curious, like.
Evan Martinez - Stax: maybe this? Do you also use spirituality as a way to overcome childhood trauma? Or is it something totally separate? Do you ever, you know, like, I'm just curious like, how do those 2 like
Evan Martinez - Stax: things exist within you?
Joseph Howlett: Yeah, it's all one thing for sure, like complete overlap.
Joseph Howlett: like I I
Joseph Howlett: there's a part of me which is which I think of as spirit
Joseph Howlett: or spiritual.
Joseph Howlett: and that is the part of me that's at play when I'm having an intimate conversation with friends
Joseph Howlett: when I'm in therapy, when I'm
Joseph Howlett: doing actual spiritual practices. it's the same part of me
that was it, Tom? Go ahead, man.
Thomas: I just barped really loud. You guys couldn't hear it, but it is on
Thomas: my end. So that'll that'll be a treat for later.
Thomas: So, like a year and a half ago, 2 years ago, we started working on this podcast.
Thomas: And the idea. essentially right was.
Thomas: we're all
Thomas: barely skeptical, sometimes cynical people. We were even more so in the past right like not believing in
Thomas: spirituality and religion and all things. Woo was one of the key components of my identity for a really long time.
Thomas: and we decided to work on this.
and
Thomas: as part of that, I like decided to
Thomas: engage and be open-minded to it.
Thomas: and over the course of the last year and a half I've gone through some of the most profound changes that I ever had in my entire life. And one of the things that's changed
Thomas: is.
Thomas: I absolutely have a spiritual life now
Thomas: in a way that I never thought that I would.
Thomas: and I think that was solidified
Thomas: during the experiences that we had in Sedona.
Thomas: and I would not have guessed
Thomas: when we started working on the this project. that that was going to be the outcome was that we were going to come out the other side of this, and I'm like, no, a lot of this shit's real.
Thomas: I think it is.
Thomas: I don't know what real means anymore. Though I'm I'm more confused about that than I am about spirituality.
Yeah, it's a good point
Thomas: we got anything else to say. Is there anything else like? Let's let's assume we're never going to talk about Sedona on a microphone ever again.
Joseph Howlett: I got 2 quick questions for Evan.
Joseph Howlett: Oh. are you a more spiritual person than you were before? The Sedona trip
Evan Martinez - Stax: does, doing the things I was doing before. but with intention, count as being more spiritual.
Thomas: do you think? Yeah, I think the key is that it does
Thomas: you? Kuala said that it does right great and sure, yeah. I'm more open to it. Yeah. Also, I'd say that like.
Thomas: is it making you feel like you're doing? Let's say you're doing the same things
Thomas: most of the same things.
Thomas: Are you. Do you feel differently about them now that you have this context in this framing.
Thomas: because that so like last but
Evan Martinez - Stax: so like last night.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I said my little thing to my parents and my brother right that I love all of them before going to bed.
Thomas: Could you explain it again? Just in case this is the one we want to use, and we don't want to use others.
Evan Martinez - Stax: So last last night, as I was saying, I love you to
Evan Martinez - Stax: my whole entire immediate family, which I I try to do every night before going to bed. I just say to myself in my head.
Evan Martinez - Stax: unless I'm really really high. Then I'll say it out loud, because I think they're in the room with me.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  you'd say, like, I love you, mom, I love you, Dad. Yeah, I'll say it out a lot like a couple of nights ago I got fucking baked because it helps me go to sleep. It helps me sleep. And I was just being like Mom. So yeah, so that's the sweetest thing I've ever heard so after. And then my grandfather, because he died. I still say, I love you, I still say, I love you, papa.
Evan Martinez - Stax: what was that saying? Oh, so yeah. Yeah. And so, since since Sedona, and like talking to you, Koala.
Evan Martinez - Stax: It like it does feel
Evan Martinez - Stax: like it's nice to know that that is a spiritual practice like that. That's a spiritual act. And it was something that I just was doing before.
Evan Martinez - Stax: You know, this was even a thing that I you know, before I even knew And now that, like I can. It's under the umbrella of spirituality. It feels nice. Yeah, like it feels good. It's it's cool. I think it's
Evan Martinez - Stax: my dad has been trying to give me to be a more spiritual person for fucking 39 years.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So to answer your question again, Joe.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I I think being just being more aware of what spirituality is, and and doing the things I was with intention. Yeah, it makes me by definition a more spiritual person.
Joseph Howlett: Second question.
Joseph Howlett: and don't ask clarifying questions this time. You just got to
Joseph Howlett: take it. are
Joseph Howlett: the name of our show that we've agreed upon and might change is, I want to believe.
Joseph Howlett: Do you want to believe
Evan Martinez - Stax: I'm I'm trying to think about how to how to phrase my answer.
Evan Martinez - Stax: The the shorter answer is, no, I'm not coming into this with an agenda.
Evan Martinez - Stax:  I was talking about this with a friend in Flagstaff, you know, during the days I was in Sedona, after you guys had both left.
Evan Martinez - Stax: And a lot of this stuff, you know, I keep saying the phrase like.
Evan Martinez - Stax: whether or not, I believe, is not the question I'm at like. It's not important to me.
Evan Martinez - Stax: and I keep saying the phrase like I I just don't know right, and I'm comfortable, not knowing
Evan Martinez - Stax: and if something changes my mind, then great, it changes my mind.
Evan Martinez - Stax: or if it pushes me, if it pushes the needle in one direction or the other great.
Evan Martinez - Stax: But when my friend, the way she frames it is that like I think she says she, and she says I think that
Evan Martinez - Stax: all of this stuff are things we just don't yet understand.
Evan Martinez - Stax: and in the future we will be able to.
Evan Martinez - Stax: And I like that better. And I and that feels more accurate to me then, just saying, I don't like I I I mean, I still don't know like they're both true.
Joseph Howlett: but that feels more wise. That's like I want. I'm glad I have that recorded, because I mean this isn't, for I I think that's that. That answer is good. I don't want to. This isn't for the pod. But like
Joseph Howlett: what your friends saying that like, that's the entire. That's the
Joseph Howlett: to me. That's the most insidious version of the like positivist worldview like I'm I'm trying to dedicate my entire career to making people not believe the thing you just said.
Evan Martinez - Stax: What that we just don't, that you mean that I said, or that my friend said, these are things we just don't understand yet, and we will someday. well, to be clear, I didn't say that, my friend? Yeah, I mean, like.
Thomas: what that means is eventually like someone
Thomas: with a Phd. Will write a paper about it, and it will fit within all of the things that
Thomas: you know we've been studying in universities and laboratories and libraries, and like we can make this stuff fit in that box. I am like.
Thomas: If we come to understand anything about this stuff in that way, I think it will be how our current view about everything that is not Wu is wrong.
Thomas: The and how like these things already fit together, and they're separate.
Thomas: and the attempt to bridge that gap between science and spiritualities bulls errant
Thomas: in a lot of ways depending on which part of it you're looking at.
Thomas: I mean, I'll say, you know I don't know.
Thomas: No, go ahead, Tom, go ahead. I'm curious what you think, but, I don't want to believe all of this stuff.
Thomas: I want to find out whether there's something that I believe
Thomas: and whether there is something worth believing in.
Thomas: I'm okay if there's not. But I
Thomas: spent
Thomas: 99% of my life actively not looking.
Thomas: And now I want to know whether like was there something I missed?
Thomas: You know it's not that I want to believe in spirituality. I think Joey really wants to feel this stuff. He wants this to be true. He already does believe it.
Thomas: and he wants more. I'm somewhere in between
Evan Martinez - Stax: anything else. Fellas.
Thomas: Yeah, it was more than enough anything else you want to say about the don't even
Evan Martinez - Stax: no, you guys got to come back just to hang out next time. I'd love to just have a few days, you know.
Thomas: We're so that in the mic that was good. That's cute.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Oh, yeah, I mean I I would love to just go back with you guys, but not work, and and just hang out for a few days, you know. Go, go to the swimming hole, go back to the creek, pick raspberries, go up the flag. I think it' be a lot of fun you think raspberries there.
Evan Martinez - Stax: Yeah, razz. He's about eras. He's in black.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I was going to say
Thomas: I got myself. I I can't wait to go back. I would love to.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I do dude, I do. I do want to check out that watering hole at that, Barista said. So I found out there's a really cool swimming hole out where exactly he talked about, which I think is
Evan Martinez - Stax: what he was describing. There's an under there's a spring
Thomas: that is in the earth that I think is underground.
Evan Martinez - Stax: No, I don't know who knows the pitches I saw were underground, but it was just
Evan Martinez - Stax: I don't know. I would be fun to check out, and it's certainly your fund to explore.
Evan Martinez - Stax: I'm so glad we didn't check out that cave, we would have all been fucking dead.
Evan Martinez - Stax: The question.
Thomas: so why don't we stop recording?
Joseph Howlett: Yeah.
wow.
Thomas: we booked.